[TASK] List common template locations as files (#5285)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ExtensionArchitecture/FileStructure/Resources/Private/Index.rst

    *   Frontend Login: :ref:`felogin.email.templateRootPath <typo3/cms-felogin:confval-felogin-felogin-email-templaterootpath>`

*   In some special cases paths might be set in PHP as well, for example when a
    ViewFactory is used: `Using the generic view factory (ViewFactoryInterface) <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3coreapi:generic-view-factory>`_.

.. _extension-resources-private-fluid-plugin:

Common locations for Fluid templates in TYPO3 extensions with plugins:
======================================================================

..  typo3:file:: [ActionName].html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/Templates/[ControllerName]/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/Templates(\/[A-Za-z0-9]+)?\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.[a-z0-9]$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Template for an extension

    Folder `Templates` often contains the Fluid templates for a TYPO3 extensions
    plugins. In Extbase they are stored in a folder with the name of the controller
    class (without Controller ending), for example the `NewsController.php` has

>     it the template for action "view" in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the template for action "view" in
```

   Extension development; Resources/Private
   Folder; Resources/Private
   Resources; Private
.. _extension-resources-private:

=========
`Private`
=========

> This folder contains resources of the that are needed when rendering a page
> but are not needed supplied directly to the browser. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder contains resources that are needed when rendering a page
but are not needed directly by the browser. This includes:
```

*   Fluid templates
*   :ref:`Language files <extension-Resources-Private-Language>`
*   Files for the compilation of assets like SCSS or TypeScript

..  contents:: Table of contents

.. _extension-resources-private-fluid:

Fluid templates in the folder Resources/Private
===============================================

Fluid templates are commonly stored in a folder called
:path:`Resources/Private/Templates`. The concrete location of templates is
configurable via:

*   TypoScript for `PAGEVIEW <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3tsref:cobj-pageview>`_:
    :ref:`paths.[priority] <t3tsref:confval-pageview-paths>`
*   TypoScript for `FLUIDTEMPLATE <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3tsref:cobj-template>`_:

>     :ref:`templateRootPaths <t3tsref:confval-fluidtemplate-templaterootpaths>` etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :ref:`templateRootPaths <t3tsref:confval-fluidtemplate-templaterootpaths>` etc.
```

*   Mails via global configuration:
    :ref:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['templateRootPaths'] <t3coreapi:confval-globals-typo3-conf-vars-mail-templaterootpaths>`
*   Settings of diverse system or third party extensions like

    *   Fluid-Styled Content: :confval:`styles.templates.templateRootPath <typo3/cms-fluid-styled-content:fluid-styled-content-styles-templates-templaterootpath>`
    *   Frontend Login: :ref:`felogin.email.templateRootPath <typo3/cms-felogin:confval-felogin-felogin-email-templaterootpath>`

*   In some special cases paths might be set in PHP as well, for example when a
    ViewFactory is used: `Using the generic view factory (ViewFactoryInterface) <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3coreapi:generic-view-factory>`_.

.. _extension-resources-private-fluid-plugin:

> Common locations for Fluid templates TYPO3 extensions with plugins:
> ===================================================================

Reviewer: Something is wrong here. Maybe?

```suggestion
Common locations for Fluid templates in TYPO3 extensions with plugins:
======================================================================
```

..  typo3:file:: SomeTemplate.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/Templates/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/Templates\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Template for an extension

>     Folder `Templates` often contains the Fluid templates for a TYPO3 extension.

Reviewer: What about Extbase context where templates are stored in `Resources/Private/Templates/[ControllerName]/[ActionName].[format]`

Author: True, we should mention that

Author: is the .format thingy still working?

Reviewer: Yes: https://github.com/TYPO3/typo3/blob/main/typo3/sysext/extbase/Classes/Mvc/Controller/ActionController.php#L510-L516

But [format] is not a must have for me. If it makes documentation cleaner I can sleep pretty good with just `.html`

Author: I added a tip and adjusted the regex

..  typo3:file:: SomePartials.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/Partials/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/Partials\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Partials for an extension

    Folder `Partials` often contains the Fluid partials for a TYPO3 extension.

>     these can be included via the `Render ViewHelper <f:render> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3-fluid-render>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These can be included via the `Render ViewHelper <f:render> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3-fluid-render>`_
```

    into the main Fluid template.

..  typo3:file:: SomeLayout.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/Layouts/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/Layouts\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Layouts for an extension

    Folder `Layouts` often contains the Fluid layouts for a TYPO3 extension.

>     these can be included via the `Layout ViewHelper <f:layout> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3fluid-fluid-layout>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These can be included via the `Layout ViewHelper <f:layout> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3fluid-fluid-layout>`_
```

    into the main Fluid template.

.. _extension-resources-private-fluid-site-packages:

Common Fluid template locations for site packages
=================================================

Commonly site package in TYPO3 v13 and above use the `PAGEVIEW <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3tsref:cobj-pageview>`_

> TypoScript object to display the HTMl page output. They have one folder, commonly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TypoScript object to display the HTML page output. They have one folder, commonly
```

> Commonly site package in TYPO3 v13 and above use the PAGEVIEW <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3tsref:cobj-pageview>`_
> TypoScript object to display the HTMl page output. They have one folder, commonly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commonly site package in TYPO3 v13 and above use the `PAGEVIEW <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3tsref:cobj-pageview>`_
TypoScript object to display the HTMl page output. They have one folder, commonly
```

`PageView` or `Templates` in folder `Resources/Private` with the subfolders
`Pages`, `Partials` and `Layouts` (they cannot be renamed).

..  typo3:file:: MyPageLayout.html
    :scope: extension

>     :path: /Resources/Private/PageView/Pages$Z/

Reviewer: `$Z`?

```suggestion
    :path: /Resources/Private/PageView/Pages/
```

    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/PageView\/Pages\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Templates for different page layouts

    This folder contains one Fluid template for each page layout defined in the

>     site package. See

Reviewer: Missing link

..  typo3:file:: SomePartials.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/PageView/Partials/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/PageView\/Partials\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Partials for the page view

>     Folder `Partials` often contains the Fluid partials for a TYPO3 extension.

Reviewer: This is the exact same text from Partials of TYPO3 Extensions. But we are in PAGEVIEW context now.

>     these can be included via the `Render ViewHelper <f:render> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3-fluid-render>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These can be included via the `Render ViewHelper <f:render> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3-fluid-render>`_
```

    into the main Fluid template.

..  typo3:file:: SomeLayout.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/PageView/Layouts/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/PageView\/Layouts\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Layouts for the page view

>     Folder `Layouts` often contains the Fluid layouts for a TYPO3 extension.

Reviewer: This is the exact same text from Layouts of TYPO3 Extensions. But we are in PAGEVIEW context now.

>     these can be included via the `Layout ViewHelper <f:layout> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3fluid-fluid-layout>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These can be included via the `Layout ViewHelper <f:layout> <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3viewhelper:typo3fluid-fluid-layout>`_
```

    into the main Fluid template.

> Templates to override or extend Fluid-Styled Content based content objects are

Reviewer 2: Maybe reference `styles.templates.templateRootPath` here again to make clear that this needs to be configured first?

typically stored in a folder called `/Resources/Private/ContentElements`:

> ..  typo3:file:: MyPageLayout.html

Reviewer: This is a page layout file and not a content object template

    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/ContentElements/Pages/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/ContentElements\/Pages\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Templates for different content elements

>     This folder contains one Fluid template for each page layout defined in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This folder contains one Fluid template for each content object type defined in the
```

Reviewer: Just see, you call it "content element templates" somewhere below

>     site package. See

Reviewer: Missing link

..  typo3:file:: SomePartials.html
    :scope: extension
    :path: /Resources/Private/ContentElements/Partials/
    :regex: /^.*\/Resources\/Private\/ContentElements\/Partials\/[A-Za-z0-9]+\.html$/
    :shortDescription: Fluid Partials for content elements

>     Folder `Partials` often contains the Fluid partials for a TYPO3 extension.

Reviewer: Same as above. If you want to keep it, maybe a note that also partials of PAGEVIEW and/or Extbase Partials can be used here.

Author: You wouldnt put PAGEVIEW partials in path ContentElements/Partials, would you?
